docs: improve writing style of TSC membership (#1547)
asyncapi/community: TSC_MEMBERSHIP.md

# Become a Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Member 

This article walks you through the journey of becoming a member of the AsyncAPI Technical Steering Committee (TSC). This journey includes:
* Actively contributing to the AsyncAPI Initiative projects
* Becoming a maintainer
* Becoming a TSC member

This article also explains the benefits of being a TSC member.

## Contents
* [What is the Technical Steering Committee?](#what-is-the-technical-steering-committee)
* [Why was the TSC formed?](#why-the-tsc-was-formed)
* [Benefits of becoming a TSC member](#benefits-of-becoming-a-tsc-member)
* [How to become a TSC member](#how-to-become-a-tsc-member)
* [How to reach out to the TSC](#how-to-reach-out-to-the-tsc)

If you prefer video, watch our [YouTube video on becoming a TSC member](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MfVUUbW2aos).

**Common terms**:
* **Contributors**: Anyone in the community who contributes code, documentation, pull request reviews, designs, or other technical artifacts to the Project ("Contributors");

> * **Maintainers**: Contributors who have earned the ability to modify ("commit") source code, documentation, or other technical artifacts in a project's repository ("Committers"). They are also referred to as CODEOWNERS on [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)

Reviewer: we need to extend it. Majority of projects have such definitions, but in very large and busy projects we have also maintainers-triagers: https://github.com/asyncapi/website/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#maintainers-setup

## What is the Technical Steering Committee?

> The Technical Steering Committee is a group of maintainers who contribute to the maintenance of the AsyncAPI Initiative. This group helps make decisions that affect the entire initiative, not just a single project. The TSC members commit to participating in the voting process.

Reviewer: they are also a source of volunteers to participate in different initiatives, like code of conduct committee. And whenever there is a need for more committees, like some AsyncAPI program needs advisors - they should be looked up among TSC members

## Why the TSC was formed
The concept of the TSC was formed when AsyncAPI joined the Linux Foundation in 2021 to guarantee a system of open governance that promotes ownership and neutrality of all participants in the initiative.

The TSC is the core of the AsyncAPI Initiative's governance model. [Read the Finding a Good Open Governance Model for AsyncAPI article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/governance-motivation) to learn why we chose it.

## Governance principles

> * The Executive Director and the TSC help manage the project. The Executive Director role will be abolished by 2025, and the Governing Board will take over.

Reviewer: > The Executive Director role will be abolished by 2025, and the Governing Board will take over.

yeah, let's not make any promises in docs - I push for it, but voting was not yet started. So if possible, I would suggest we remove this sentence

* Membership is unlimited. As long as you maintain a repository, you'll remain a TSC member.
* Only 1/4 of the company can participate. For example, if there are 20 TSC members, only 5 can be from the same company to prevent a majority vote based on active contributions.
* Radical transparency:
  * All official meetings are public.

>   * No secret or private channels for decision-making.

Reviewer: if decision was made privately - it is not valid and a subject for change

  * Decision-making is asynchronous. Public meetings end with a summary and a proposed topic for a decision, allowing non-participants to decide and influence it.

> * Inclusivity: TSC welcomes people hired by companies to work on the project, as well as individuals from other companies or contributors willing to help the AsyncAPI Initiative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Inclusivity: TSC welcomes people hired by companies to work on the project, as well as individuals from other companies or contributors that are not affiliated with any company willing to help the AsyncAPI Initiative.
```

Check [this article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/radical-transparency) to learn more on why do we want to be that transparent.

> ## Duties

Reviewer: maybe we should an pretty obvious stuff, but still, that TSC duty is to always behave with respect to CoC

* GitHub Notifications: `@asyncapi/tsc_members`.

## Benefits of becoming a TSC member
As a TSC member, you will enjoy the following benefits:
* Recognition from the AsyncAPI community
  * TSC members can apply for free conference tickets before anyone else.
  * TSC members are first asked for help with the Master ceremony, exposing them to the community and assisting with questions.
  * TSC members are promoted at https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc
* Exposure of your portfolio to potential employers as recognition facilitates career advancement.
* Involvement in the voting process on topics concerning the entire Initiative
* Being a part of key decision-making for the Initiative. Especially related to finance.
* A unique experience in shaping the initiative's future and open-source development.
* TSC is the most trusted group in the community and it is the first group of people to choose from when forming [Working Groups](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/WORKING_GROUPS.md).

## How to become a TSC member

> To become a TSC member, you must be a project maintainer or an Ambassador within the AsyncAPI Initiative.

Reviewer: > an Ambassador

this was not yet decided so please remove

You can become a maintainer by either:
1. Initiating a new repository or project and becoming its maintainer.
2. Donating to an existing repository or project and continuing to maintain it.
3. Supporting and committing to existing projects and being invited by other maintainers to join them as a maintainer. For more information, refer to [Become a maintainer in an existing project](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/Become-maintainer-in-existing-project.md).

> There's no invitation flow to join the TSC; it's something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer or ambassador by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). In other words, if you maintain a repository in the AsyncAPI organization and want to help more than one project, you can open a PR and add your name to the TSC list. That's it. It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on, so nobody can question your decision.

Reviewer: > or ambassador

please remove

> There's no invitation flow to join the TSC; it's something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer or ambassador by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). In other words, if you maintain a repository in the AsyncAPI organization and want to help more than one project, you can open a PR and add your name to the TSC list. That's it. It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on, so nobody can question your decision.

Reviewer: > you can open a PR and add your name to the TSC list

it's no longer working like this. We have maintainers automation in place - every time somebody is added to CODEOWNERS somewhere, new maintainer is automatically added to https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml. 

so they only need to find their name on the list and change `isTscMember` from `false` to `true` and update other missing information like for example `slack` id

The concept of the TSC was formed when AsyncAPI joined the Linux Foundation in 2021 to guarantee a system of open governance that promotes ownership and neutrality of all participants in the initiative.
 
Some of the principles of the Linux Foundation partnership include:
* No founding members with special privileges
* Equality among all contributors
* Asynchronous decision making 
* Every maintainer is allowed to become a TSC member automatically

## Benefits of becoming a TSC member
As a TSC member, you will enjoy the following benefits: 
* Recognition from the AsyncAPI community
* Exposure of your portfolio to potential employers
* Involvement in the voting process on topics concerning the entire Initiative
* Being a part of key decision-making for the Initiative. Especially related to finance.

## How to become a TSC member
Any maintainer can become a TSC member, meaning that to join the TSC, you need to be a maintainer of one of the projects in the AsyncAPI Initiative.

You can become a maintainer by doing at least one of the following items within the AsyncAPI Initiative GitHub organization:
* Initiate a new repository/project and become its maintainer.

> * Donate the existing repository/project and stay as its maintainer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Donate to the existing repository/project and stay as its maintainer. 
```

* Support and commit to existing projects and be invited by other maintainers to join them as a maintainer. Learn more in [Become a maintainer in an existing project](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/Become-maintainer-in-existing-project.md)

Joining the TSC is something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on. 

See current [TSC members](https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc).

## How to reach out to the TSC
There are several ways to reach out to the TSC members:
* Join the [AsyncAPI Slack](https://www.asyncapi.com/slack-invite) and ping the `@tsc` group to ask questions or share your thoughts.

> * Mention the `@asyncapi/tsc_members` GitHub team in any issue, discussion or pull request. This will also send a message in the `95_bot-tsc-members-mentioned` channel in Slack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Mention the `@asyncapi/tsc_members` GitHub team in any issue, discussion, or pull request. This will also send a message in the `95_bot-tsc-members-mentioned` channel in Slack.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please note that the TSC members are volunteers and may not respond immediately.

> > Please be patient and respectful. Also it will be helpful if there is as less spam as possible. For more information, please refer to the [Slack Etiquette](./slack-etiquette.md) document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Please be patient and respectful. Also, it will be helpful if there is as little spam as possible. For more information, please refer to the [Slack Etiquette](./slack-etiquette.md) document.
```

**Common terms**:
* **Contributors**: Anyone in the community who contributes code, documentation, pull request reviews, designs, or other technical artifacts to the Project ("Contributors");
* **Maintainers**: Contributors who have earned the ability to modify ("commit") source code, documentation, or other technical artifacts in a project's repository ("Committers"). They are also referred to as CODEOWNERS on [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)

## What is the Technical Steering Committee?
The Technical Steering Committee is a group of maintainers who contribute to the maintenance of the AsyncAPI Initiative. This group helps make decisions that affect the entire initiative, not just a single project. The TSC members commit to participating in the voting process.

## Why the TSC was formed
The concept of the TSC was formed when AsyncAPI joined the Linux Foundation in 2021 to guarantee a system of open governance that promotes ownership and neutrality of all participants in the initiative.

> The TSC is the core of the AsyncAPI Initiative's governance model. Check [this article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/governance-motivation) to learn more on why did we choose it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TSC is the core of the AsyncAPI Initiative's governance model. [Read the Finding a Good Open Governance Model for AsyncAPI article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/governance-motivation) to learn why we chose it.
```

## Governance principles

> * The Executive Director and the TSC manage the project. The Executive Director role will be abolished by the end of 2024 or early 2025, and the TSC will take over.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Executive Director and the TSC help manage the project. The Executive Director role will be abolished by 2025, and the Governing Board will take over.
```

* Membership is unlimited. As long as you maintain a repository, you'll remain a TSC member.
* Only 1/4 of the company can participate. For example, if there are 20 TSC members, only 5 can be from the same company to prevent a majority vote based on active contributions.
* Radical transparency:
  * All official meetings are public.
  * No secret or private channels for decision-making.
  * Decision-making is asynchronous. Public meetings end with a summary and a proposed topic for a decision, allowing non-participants to decide and influence it.
* Inclusivity: TSC welcomes people hired by companies to work on the project, as well as individuals from other companies or contributors willing to help the AsyncAPI Initiative.

Check [this article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/radical-transparency) to learn more on why do we want to be that transparent.

## Duties
There is only one duty: regularly participate in TSC discussions and voting.

As TSC doesn't override maintainers' decisions, they are involved in topics affecting the entire organization.

Possible topics:

> * Accept new projects - when an existing open-source project wants to join the AsyncAPI umbrella (owner wants to donate the project to the AsyncAPI Initiative). The process is about to inform TSC members about the project's purpose, why it is donated, who will maintain it so that TSC decides if the project can be accepted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Accept new projects - when an existing open-source project wants to join the AsyncAPI umbrella (owner wants to donate the project to the AsyncAPI Initiative). The process is about informing TSC members about the project's purpose, why it is donated, and who will maintain it so that TSC can decide if the project can be accepted.
```

* Archive inactive projects without regular maintenance.
* Programs organization that affect the whole organization, not a single repository:
  * Ambassador program
  * Bounty program
* Budget approval to allocate sponsorship funds for different initiatives.

> * Conflicts resolution - TSC resolves tech-related conflicts, while there is also a dedicated committee that handles personal conflicts related to the Code of Conduct.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Conflicts resolution - TSC resolves tech-related conflicts, while a dedicated committee handles personal conflicts related to the Code of Conduct.
```

> Soon, there will be an automation based on [gitvote](https://github.com/cncf/gitvote) to enhance TSC's voting efficiency. So whenever there a need to participate in a discussion or vote, the voting will consist of three emojies:

Reviewer: it is already there in place: https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/voting.md

* 👍 (vote for)
* 👎 (vote against)
* 👀 (no opinion about a particular topic. So you may, for example, acknowledge a topic if you're not experienced in some area being voted/discussed).

> ### Get notified about TSC discussions and voting

Reviewer: but this one works only to notify TSC that did not vote yet. Only during voting, not for other discussions

* Slack #95_bot-tsc-members-mentioned - the bot alerts TSC members to voting or discussion requirements.

> * Subscription form https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Subscription form https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc to receive email whenever `@asyncapi/tsc_members` is mentioned in GitHub
```

* GitHub Notifications: @asyncapi/tsc_members

> ## Benefits of becoming a TSC member

Reviewer: also they are promoted at https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc

As a TSC member, you will enjoy the following benefits:
* Recognition from the AsyncAPI community
  * TSC members can apply for free conference tickets before anyone else.
  * TSC members are first asked for help with the Master ceremony, exposing them to the community and assisting with questions.
* Exposure of your portfolio to potential employers as recognition facilitates career advancement.
* Involvement in the voting process on topics concerning the entire Initiative
* Being a part of key decision-making for the Initiative. Especially related to finance.
* A unique experience in shaping the initiative's future and open-source development.

> * TSC members form the base for different initiatives and programs, known as "sub-committees".

Author: @derberg This is something you were talking about in the [AsyncAPI Technical Steering Committee Onboarding - 20:11](https://youtu.be/MfVUUbW2aos?si=LjBahvlIRbg7OIrm&t=1211)

<img width="1273" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-10 at 12 16 37 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54c06d87-046d-4d1b-ac51-b1e1ff24205f" />

> * TSC members form the base for different initiatives and programs, known as "sub-committees".

Reviewer: yeah, I mention there code of conduct committee (that we have) and governance committee (govenance board that we will start voing on this month) and different programs, like ambassador or mentorship - for us TSC is the most trusted group in the community that is the first group of people to choose from when we form some special groups - same with working groups really

## How to become a TSC member

> To become a TSC member, you must be a maintainer of a project within the AsyncAPI Initiative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To become a TSC member, you must be a project maintainer or an Ambassador within the AsyncAPI Initiative.
```

You can become a maintainer by either:
1. Initiating a new repository or project and becoming its maintainer.
2. Donating to an existing repository or project and continuing to maintain it.

> 3. Supporting and committing to existing projects, and being invited by other maintainers to join them as a maintainer. For more information, refer to [Become a maintainer in an existing project](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/Become-maintainer-in-existing-project.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Supporting and committing to existing projects and being invited by other maintainers to join them as a maintainer. For more information, refer to [Become a maintainer in an existing project](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/Become-maintainer-in-existing-project.md).
```

> There's no invitation flow to join the TSC, this is something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). In other words, if you maintain a repository in the AsyncAPI organization and want to help more than one project, you're free to open a PR, add your name to the TSC list, and that's it. It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on, so nobody can question your decision.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's no invitation flow to join the TSC; it's something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer or ambassador by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). In other words, if you maintain a repository in the AsyncAPI organization and want to help more than one project, you can open a PR and add your name to the TSC list. That's it. It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on, so nobody can question your decision.
```
